# Bored Man's Blackjack
### Video Demo:  <URL HERE>

### Description:
#### This Project is called Bored Man's Blackjack, and is a simple adaptation of blackjack that was created for single player use and minimal code, functions and interface. It works mostly on its own, and only requires a few user inputs. It also uses coins for a currency that is stored outside the program, which keeps the user's money after each round. The only players involved in this game is the usr and the dealer, which works automatically.

### Files:
#### There are 3 important files that are used in this project (4 including the README.md file), 'project.py' is where the main code, classes and functions reside, 'test_project' is a test file for the various functions and class functions in the project, 'coins.txt' is a text file that is read from and written to after every round in the game, and contains the coins the user currently owns.

### Design & Creation:
#### When creating this project, I started by importing 'sys' in order to be able to use 'sys.exit' to not only exit the code, but pass through certain exit codes for certain outcomes, which can be useful for testing. I also imported the 'pydealer' module, which is a module I found online that gives me access to a full deck of cards and has certain functions imperative to any card game, such as 'deck.shuffle'.
#### After this I created a text file called 'coins.txt' that I would read from at the start of the program , which retrieves how many coins the user currently owns.
#### Then I created the classes necessary for my program, the 'Dealer' and 'Player' classes, along with the appropriate class functions. Some of the important functions included the 'hit' function which added another card to either the player or dealer's deck. Another function is the 'calcScore' function, which takes in the current cards in the player/dealer's deck and extracts the value from each of them, which then returns a total score.
#### Once these functions worked, I created the functions for the game to be able to work, which included 'checkWinner', 'playerWon', 'dealerPlay' and the 'main' function. The 'checkWinner' function takes in the score of both the player and dealer using the class function 'calcScore', and calculates who wins the round (whether the player or dealer has a score closer to 21).
#### The 'playerWon' function is used whenever the player has won. It is a small function that adds the coins to the player's balance, tells the player that they won, and then prints how many coins they currently have.
#### Finally, the 'dealerPlay' function handles the automated dealer and how it plays against the player. It deals 2 random cards which are passed into the dealer when the object is created, similar to how the player object is created, except there are no coins for the dealer and the cards are passed in individually. Then their cards are displayed using the class function 'display' and the score for the dealer is calculated using 'calcScore'. As per the rules of blackjack, if the returned score is below 16, then the dealer automically takes another card. If the dealer's score is then equal to 21, then the dealer wins and sys.exit returns an exit code of 1, indicating that the dealer won. If their code is over 21, they lose and the exit code is 0, indicating the user won. In any other case, the 'checkWinner' function is called and the score is then checked to see whether the dealer or player was closer to 21.
